<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VII: The Last Act of Lucretia Borgia</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="book-3" id="chapter-3-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">The Last Act of <i epub:type="se:name.music.opera">Lucretia Borgia</i></p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Two hours after this interview in the pavilion Raymond Marolles is seated in his old place in the front row of the stalls. Several times during the prologue and the first act of the opera his glass seeks the box next to that of the King, always to find it empty. But after the curtain has fallen on the finale to the first act, the quiet watcher raises his glass once more, and sees Valerie enter, leaning on her uncle’s arm. Her dark beauty loses nothing by its unusual pallor, and her eyes tonight have a brilliancy which, to the admiring crowd, who know so little and so little care to know the secrets of her proud soul, is very beautiful. She wears a high dress of dark green velvet, fastened at the throat with one small diamond ornament, which trembles and emits bright scintillations of rainbow light. This sombre dress, her deadly pallor, and the strange fire in her eyes, give to her beauty of tonight a certain peculiarity which renders her more than usually the observed of all observers.</p>
			<p>She seats herself directly facing the stage, laying down her costly bouquet, which is one of pure white, being composed entirely of orange-flowers, snowdrops, and jasmine, a mixture of winter, summer, and hothouse blossoms for which her florist knows how to charge her. She veils the intensity which is the distinctive character of her face with a weary listless glance tonight. She does not once look round the house. She has no need to look, for it seems as if without looking she can see the pale face of Monsieur Marolles, who lounges with his back to the orchestra, and his opera-glass in his hand.</p>
			<p>The Marquis de Cevennes glances at the programme of the opera, and throws it away from him with a dissatisfied air.</p>
			<p>“That abominable poisoning woman!” he says; “when will the Parisians be tired of horrors?”</p>
			<p>His niece raises her eyebrows slightly, but does not lift her eyelids as she says⁠—“Ah, when, indeed!”</p>
			<p>“I don’t like these subjects,” continued the marquis. “Even the handling of a Victor Hugo cannot make them otherwise than repulsive: and then again, there is something to be said on the score of their evil tendency. They set a dangerous example. Lucretia Borgia, in black velvet, avenging an insult according to the rules of high art and to the music of Donizetti is very charming, no doubt; but we don’t want our wives and daughters to learn how they may poison us without fear of detection. What do you say, Rinval?” he asked, turning to a young officer who had just entered the box. “Do you think I am right?”</p>
			<p>“Entirely, my dear marquis. The representation of such a hideous subject is a sin against beauty and innocence,” he said, bowing to Valerie. “And, though the music is very exquisite⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Valerie, “my uncle cannot help admiring the music. How have they been singing tonight?”</p>
			<p>“Why, strange to say, for once De Lancy has disappointed his admirers. His Gennaro is a very weak performance.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed!” She takes her bouquet in her hand and plays with the drooping blossom of a snowdrop. “A weak performance? You surprise me really!” She might be speaking of the flowers she holds, from the perfect indifference of her tone.</p>
			<p>“They say he is ill,” continues Monsieur Rinval. “He almost broke down in the ‘<span epub:type="se:name.music.song" xml:lang="la">Pescator ignobile</span>.’ But the curtain has risen⁠—we shall have the poison scene soon, and you can judge for yourself.”</p>
			<p>She laughs. “Nay,” she says, “I have never been so enthusiastic an admirer of this young man as you are, Monsieur Rinval. I should not think the world had come to an end if he happened to sing a false note.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The young Parisian bent over her chair, admiring her grace and beauty⁠—admiring, perhaps, more than all, the haughty indifference with which she spoke of the opera-singer, as if he were something too far removed from her sphere for her to be in earnest about him even for one moment. Might he not have wondered even more, if he had admired her less, could he have known that as she looked up at him with a radiant face, she could not even see him standing close beside her; that to her clouded sight the opera-house was only a confusion of waving lights and burning eyes; and that, in the midst of a chaos of blood and fire, she saw the vision of her lover and her husband dying by the hand that had caressed him?</p>
			<p>“Now for the banquet scene,” exclaimed Monsieur Rinval. “Ah! there is Gennaro. Is he not gloriously handsome in ruby velvet and gold? That clubbed Venetian wig becomes him. It is a wig, I suppose.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no doubt. That sort of people owe half their beauty to wigs, and white and red paint, do they not?” she asked, contemptuously; and even as she spoke she was thinking of the dark hair which her white fingers had smoothed away from the broad brow so often, in that time which, gone by a few short days, seemed centuries ago to her. She had suffered the anguish of a lifetime in losing the bright dream of her life.</p>
			<p>“See,” said Monsieur Rinval, “Gennaro has the poisoned goblet in his hand. He is acting very badly. He is supporting himself with one hand on the back of that chair, though he has not yet drunk the fatal draught.”</p>
			<p>De Lancy was indeed leaning on an antique stage-chair for support. Once he passed his hand across his forehead, as if to collect his scattered senses, but he drank the wine, and went on with the music. Presently, however, every performer in the orchestra looked up as if thunderstruck. He had left off singing in the middle of a concerted piece; but the Maffeo Orsini took up the passage, and the opera proceeded.</p>
			<p>“He is either ill, or he does not know the music,” said Monsieur Rinval. “If the last, it is really shameful; and he presumes on the indulgence of the public.”</p>
			<p>“It is always the case with these favourites, is it not?” asked Valerie.</p>
			<p>At this moment the centre of the stage was thrown open. There entered first a procession of black and shrouded monks singing a dirge. Next, pale, haughty, and vengeful, the terrible Lucretia burst upon the scene.</p>
			<p>Scornful and triumphant she told the companions of Gennaro that their doom was sealed, pointing to where, in the ghastly background, were ranged five coffins, waiting for their destined occupants. The audience, riveted by the scene, awaited that thrilling question of Gennaro, “Then, madame, where is the sixth?” and as De Lancy emerged from behind his comrades every eye was fixed upon him.</p>
			<p>He advanced towards Lucretia, tried to sing, but his voice broke on the first note; he caught with his hand convulsively at his throat, staggered a pace or two forward, and then fell heavily to the floor. There was immediate consternation and confusion on the stage; chorus and singers crowded round him; one of the singers knelt down by his side, and raised his head. As he did so, the curtain fell suddenly.</p>
			<p>“I was certain he was ill,” said Monsieur Rinval, “I fear it must be apoplexy.”</p>
			<p>“It is rather an uncharitable suggestion,” said the marquis; “but do you not think it just possible that the young man may be tipsy?”</p>
			<p>There was a great buzz of surprise amongst the audience, and in about three minutes one of the performers came before the curtain, and announced that in consequence of the sudden and alarming illness of Monsieur de Lancy it was impossible to conclude the opera. He requested the indulgence of the audience for a favourite ballet which would commence immediately.</p>
			<p>The orchestra began the overture of the ballet, and several of the audience rose to leave the house.</p>
			<p>“Will you stop any longer, Valerie? or has this dismal finale dispirited you?” said the marquis.</p>
			<p>“A little,” said Valerie; “besides, we have promised to look in at Madame de Vermanville’s concert before going to the duchess’s ball.”</p>
			<p>Monsieur Rinval helped to muffle her in her cloak, and then offered her his arm. As they passed from the great entrance to the carriage of the marquis, Valerie dropped her bouquet. A gentleman advanced from the crowd and restored it to her.</p>
			<p>“I congratulate you alike on your strength of mind, as on your beauty, <em>mademoiselle</em>!” he said, in a whisper too low for her companions to hear, but with a terrible emphasis on the last word.</p>
			<p>As she stepped into the carriage, she heard a bystander say⁠—“Poor fellow, only seven-and-twenty! And so marvellously handsome and gifted!”</p>
			<p>“Dear me,” said Monsieur Rinval, drawing up the carriage window, “how very shocking! De Lancy is dead!”</p>
			<p>Valerie did not utter one exclamation at this announcement. She was looking steadily out of the opposite window. She was counting the lamps in the streets through the mist of a winter’s night.</p>
			<p>“Only twenty-seven!” she cried hysterically, “only twenty-seven! It might have been thirty-seven, forty-seven, fifty-seven! But he despised her love; he trampled out the best feelings of her soul; so it was only twenty-seven! Marvellously handsome, and only twenty-seven!”</p>
			<p>“For heaven’s sake open the windows and stop the carriage, Rinval!” cried the marquis⁠—“I’m sure my niece is ill.”</p>
			<p>She burst into a long, ringing laugh.</p>
			<p>“My dear uncle, you are quite mistaken. I never was better in my life; but it seems to me as if the death of this opera-singer has driven everybody mad.”</p>
			<p>They drove rapidly home, and took her into the house. The maid Finette begged that her mistress might be carried to the pavilion, but the marquis overruled her, and had his niece taken into her old suite of apartments in the mansion. The first physicians in Paris were sent for, and when they came they pronounced her to be seized by a brain-fever, which promised to be a very terrible one.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
