<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VI: The Quiet Figure on the Heath</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="book-2" id="chapter-2-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">The Quiet Figure on the Heath</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The morning after the storm broke bright and clear, promising a hot summer’s day, but also promising a pleasant breeze to counterbalance the heat of the sun. This was the legacy of the storm, which, dying out about three o’clock, after no purposeless fury, had left behind it a better and purer air in place of the sultry atmosphere which had heralded its coming.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Joseph Peters, seated at breakfast this morning, attended by Kuppins nursing the “fondling,” has a great deal to say by means of the dirty alphabet (greasy from the effects of matutinal bacon) about last night’s storm. Kuppins has in nowise altered since we last saw her, and four months have made no change in the inscrutable physiognomy of the silent detective; but four months have made a difference in the “fondling,” now familiarly known as “baby.” Baby is short-coated; baby takes notice. This accomplishment of taking notice appears to consist chiefly in snatching at every article within its reach, from Kuppins’s luxuriant locks to the hot bowl of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters’s pipe. Baby also is possessed of a marvellous pair of shoes, which are alternately in his mouth, under the fender, and upon his feet⁠—to say nothing of their occasionally finding their way out of the window, on to the dust-heap, and into divers other domestic recesses too numerous to mention. Baby is also possessed of a cap with frills, which it is Kuppins’s delight to small-plait, and the delight of baby to demolish. Baby is devotedly attached to Kuppins, and evinces his affection by such pleasing demonstrations as poking his fists down her throat, hanging on to her nose, pushing a tobacco-pipe up her nostrils, and other equally gratifying proofs of infantine regard. Baby is, in short, a wonderful child; and the eye of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters at breakfast wanders from his bacon and his watercresses to his young adopted, with a look of pride he does not attempt to conceal.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters has risen in his profession since last February. He has assisted at the discovery of two or three robberies, and has evinced on those occasions such a degree of tact, triumphing so completely over the difficulties he labours under from his infirmity, as to have won for himself a better place in the police force of Slopperton⁠—and of course a better salary. But business has been dull lately, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Joseph Peters, who is ambitious, has found no proper field for his abilities as yet.</p>
			<p>“I should like an iron-safe case, a regular out-and-out burglary,” he muses, “or a good forgery, say to the tune of a thousand or so. Or a bit of bigamy; that would be something new. But a jolly good poisoning case might make my fortune. If that there little ’un was growed up,” he mentally ejaculated, as Kuppins’s charge gave an unusually loud scream, “his lungs might be a fortune to me. Lord,” he continued, waxing metaphysical, “I don’t look upon that hinfant as a hinfant, I looks upon him as a voice.”</p>
			<p>The “voice” was a very powerful one just at this moment; for in an interval of affectionate weakness Kuppins had regaled the “fondling” on the rind of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters’s rasher, which, not harmonizing with the limited development of his swallowing apparatus, had brought out the purple tints in his complexion with alarming violence.</p>
			<p>For a long time <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters mused, and at last, after signalling Kuppins, as was his wont on commencing a conversation, with a loud snap of his finger and thumb, he began thus:</p>
			<p>“There’s a case of shoplifting at Halford’s Heath, and I’ve got to go over and look up some evidence in the village. I’ll tell you what I’ll do with you; I’ll take you and baby over in Vorkins’s trap⁠—he said as how he’d lend it me whenever I liked to ask him for the loan of it; and I’ll stand treat to the Rosebush tea-gardens.”</p>
			<p>Never had the dirty alphabet fashioned such sweet words. A drive in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap, and the Rosebush tea-gardens! If Kuppins had been a fairy changeling, and had awoke one morning to find herself a queen, I don’t think she would have chosen any higher delight wherewith to celebrate her accession to the throne.</p>
			<p>Kuppins had, during the few months of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters’s residence in the indoor Eden of <abbr>No.</abbr> 5, Little Gulliver Street, won a very high place in that gentleman’s regards. The elderly proprietress of the Eden was as nothing in the eyes of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters when compared with Kuppins. It was Kuppins whom he consulted when giving his orders for dinner; Kuppins, whose eye he knew to be infallible as regarded a chop, either mutton or pork; whose finger was as the finger of Fate in the matter of hard or soft-roed herrings. It was by Kuppins’s advice he purchased some mysterious garment for the baby, or some prodigious wonder in the shape of a bandana or a neck-handkerchief for himself; and this tea-garden treat he had long contemplated as a fitting reward for the fidelity of his handmaiden.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins was one of the officials of the police force, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap was a happy combination of the cart of a vender of feline provisions and the gig of a fast young man of half a century gone by⁠—that is to say, it partook of the disadvantages of each, without possessing the capabilities of either: but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters looked at it with respect, and in the eye of Kuppins it was a gorgeous and fashionable vehicle, which the most distinguished member of the peerage might have driven along the Lady’s Mile, at six o’clock on a midsummer afternoon, with pride and delight.</p>
			<p>At two o’clock on this June afternoon, behold <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap at the door of <abbr>No.</abbr> 5, Little Gulliver Street, with Kuppins in a miraculous bonnet, and baby in a wonderful hat, seated therein. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, standing on the pavement, contemplated the appointments of the equipage with some sense of pride, and the juvenile population of the street hovered around, absorbed in admiration of the turnout.</p>
			<p>“Mind your bonnet don’t make the wehicle top-heavy, miss,” said one youthful votary of the renowned Joe Miller; “it’s big enough, anyways.”</p>
			<p>Miss Kuppins (she was Miss Kuppins in her Sunday costume) flung a Parthian glance at the young barbarian, and drew down a green veil, which, next to the “fondling,” was the pride of her heart. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, armed with a formidable whip, mounted to his seat by her side, and away drove the trap, leaving the juvenile population aforesaid venting its envy in the explosion of a perfect artillery of <i xml:lang="fr">jeux de mots</i>.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap was as a fairy vehicle to Kuppins, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s elderly pony an enchanted quadruped, under the strokes of whose winged hoofs Slopperton flew away like a smoky dream, and was no more seen⁠—an enchanted quadruped, by whose means the Slopperton suburbs of unfinished houses, scaffolding, barren ground for sale in building lots, ugly lean streets, and inky river, all melted into the distance, giving place to a road that intersected a broad heath, in the undulations of which lay fairy pools of blue water, in whose crystal depths the good people might have admired their tiny beauties as in a mirror. Indeed, it was pleasant to ride in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s jingling trap through the pure country air, scented with the odours of distant bean-fields, and, looking back, to see the smoke of Sloppertonian chimneys a mere black daub on the blue sky, and to be led almost to wonder how, on the face of such a fair and lovely earth, so dark a blot as Slopperton could be.</p>
			<p>The Rosebush tea-gardens were a favourite resort of Slopperton on a Sunday afternoon; and many teachers there were in that great city who did not hesitate to say that the rosebushes of those gardens were shrubs planted by his Satanic Majesty, and that the winding road over Halford’s Heath, though to the ignorant eye bordered by bright blue streams and sweet-smelling wild flowers, lay in reality between two lakes of fire and brimstone. Some gentlemen, however, dared to say⁠—gentlemen who wore white neckcloths too, and were familiar and welcome in the dwellings of the poor⁠—that Slopperton might go to more wicked places than Rosebush gardens, and might possibly be led into more evil courses than the consumption of tea and watercresses at ninepence a-head. But in spite of all differences of opinion, the Rosebush gardens prospered, and Rosebush tea and bread-and-butter were pleasant in the mouth of Slopperton.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters deposited his fair young companion, with the baby in her arms, at the gate of the gardens⁠—after having authorized her to order two teas, and to choose an arbour⁠—and walked off himself into the village of Halford to transact his official business.</p>
			<p>The ordering of the teas and the choosing of the arbour were a labour of love with the fair Kuppins. She selected a rustic retreat, over which the luxuriant tendrils of a hop-vine fell like a thick green curtain. It was a sight to see Kuppins skirmishing with the earwigs and spiders in their sylvan bower, and ultimately routing those insects from the nests of their fathers. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters returned from the village in about an hour, hot and dusty, but triumphant as to the issue of the business he had come about, and with an inordinate thirst for tea at ninepence a-head. I don’t know whether Rosebush gardens made much out of the two teas at ninepence, but I know the bread-and-butter and watercresses disappeared by the aid of the detective and his fair companion as if by magic. It was pleasant to watch the “fondling” during this humble fête champêtre. He had been brought up by hand, which would be better expressed as by <em>spoon</em>, and had been fed on every variety of comestible, from pap and farinaceous food to beefsteaks and onions and the soft roes of red herrings⁠—to say nothing of sugar-sticks, bacon rinds, and the claws of shellfish; he therefore, immediately upon the appearance of the two teas, laid violent hands on a bunch of watercresses and a slice of bread-and-butter, wiping the buttered side upon his face⁠—so as to give himself the appearance of an infant in a violent perspiration⁠—preparatory to its leisurely consumption. He also made an onslaught on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters’s cup of steaming tea, but scalding his hands therewith, withdrew to the bosom of Kuppins, and gave vent to his indignation in loud screams, which the detective said made the gardens quite lively. After the two teas, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, attended by Kuppins and the infant, strolled round the gardens, and peered into the arbours, very few of which were tenanted this weekday afternoon. The detective indulged in a gambling speculation with some wonderful machine, the distinguishing features of which were numbers and Barcelona nuts; and by the aid of which you might lose as much as threepence halfpenny before you knew where you were, while you could not by any possibility win anything. There was also a bowling-green, and a swing, which Kuppins essayed to mount, and which repudiated that young lady, by precipitating her forward on her face at the first start.</p>
			<p>Having exhausted the mild dissipations of the gardens, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters and Kuppins returned to their bower, where the gentleman sat smoking his clay pipe, and contemplating the infant, with a perfect serenity and calm enjoyment delightful to witness. But there was more on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters’s mind that summer’s evening than the infant. He was thinking of the trial of Richard Marwood, and the part he had taken in that trial by means of the dirty alphabet; he was thinking, perhaps, of the fate of Richard⁠—poor unlucky Richard, a hopeless and incurable lunatic, imprisoned for life in a dreary asylum, and comforting himself in that wretched place by wild fancies of imaginary greatness. Presently <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, with a preparatory snap of his fingers, asks Kuppins if she can “call to mind that there story of the lion and the mouse.”</p>
			<p>Kuppins <em>can</em> call it to mind, and proceeds to narrate with volubility, how a lion, once having rendered a service to a mouse, found himself caught in a great net, and in need of a friend; how this insignificant mouse had, by sheer industry and perseverance, effected the escape of the mighty lion. Whether they lived happy ever afterwards Kuppins couldn’t say, but had no doubt they did; that being the legitimate conclusion of every legend, in this young lady’s opinion.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters scratched his head violently during this story, to which he listened with his mouth very much round the corner; and when it was finished he fell into a reverie that lasted till the distant Slopperton clocks chimed the quarter before eight⁠—at which time he laid down his pipe, and departed to prepare <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap for the journey home.</p>
			<p>Perhaps of the two journeys, the journey home was almost the more pleasant. It seemed to Kuppins’s young imagination as if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters was bent on driving <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap straight into the sinking sun, which was going down in a sea of crimson behind a ridge of purple heath. Slopperton was yet invisible, except as a dark cloud on the purple sky. This road across the heath was very lonely on every evening except Sunday, and the little party only met one group of haymakers returning from their work, and one stout farmer’s wife, laden with groceries, hastening home from Slopperton. It was a still evening, and not a sound rose upon the clear air, except the last song of a bird or the chirping of a grasshopper. Perhaps, if Kuppins had been with anybody else, she might have been frightened for Kuppins had a confused idea that such appearances as highwaymen and ghosts are common to the vesper hour; but in the company of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, Kuppins would have fearlessly met a regiment of highwaymen, or a churchyard full of ghosts: for was he not the law and the police in person, under whose shadow there could be no fear?</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap was fast gaining on the sinking sun, when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters drew up, and paused irresolutely between two roads. These diverging roads met at a point a little further on, and the Sunday afternoon pleasure-seekers crossing the heath took sometimes one, sometimes the other; but the road to the left was the least frequented, being the narrower and more hilly, and this road <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters took, still driving towards the dark line behind which the red sun was going down.</p>
			<p>The broken ground of the heath was all aglow with the warm crimson light; a dissipated skylark and an early nightingale were singing a duet, to which the grasshoppers seemed to listen with suspended chirpings; a frog of an apparently fretful disposition was keeping up a captious croak in a ditch by the tide of the road; and beyond these voices there seemed to be no sound beneath the sky. The peaceful landscape and the tranquil evening shed a benign influence upon Kuppins, and awakened the dormant poetry in that young lady’s breast.</p>
			<p>“Lor’, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters,” she said, “it’s hard to think in such a place as this, that gents of your perfession should be wanted. I do think now, if I was ever led to feel to want to take and murder somebody, which I hopes ain’t likely⁠—knowin’ my duty to my neighbour better⁠—I do think, somehow, this evening would come back to my mind, and I should hear them birds a-singing, and see that there sun a-sinking, till I shouldn’t be able to do it, somehow.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters shakes his head dubiously: he is a benevolent man and a philanthropist; but he doesn’t like his profession run down, and a murder and bread-and-cheese are inseparable things in his mind.</p>
			<p>“And, do you know,” continued Kuppins, “it seems to me as if, when this world is so beautiful and quiet, it’s quite hard to think there’s one wicked person in it to cast a shadow on its peace.”</p>
			<p>As Kuppins said this, she and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters were startled by a shadow which came between them and the sinking sun⁠—a distorted shadow thrown across the narrow road from the sharp outline of the figure of a man lying upon a hillock a little way above them. Now, there is not much to alarm the most timid person in the sight of a man asleep upon a summer’s evening among heath and wild flowers; but something in this man’s appearance startled Kuppins, who drew nearer to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, and held the “fondling,” now fast asleep and muffled in a shawl, closer to her bosom. The man was lying on his back, with his face upturned to the evening sky, and his arms straight down at his sides. The sound of the wheels of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap did not awaken him; and even when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters drew up with a sudden jerk, the sleeping man did not raise his head. Now, I don’t know why <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters should stop, or why either he or Kuppins should feel any curiosity about this sleeping man; but they certainly did feel considerable curiosity. He was dressed rather shabbily, but still like a gentleman; and it was perhaps a strange thing for a gentleman to be sleeping so soundly in such a lonely spot as this. Then again, there was something in his attitude⁠—a want of ease, a certain stiffness, which had a strange effect upon both Kuppins and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters.</p>
			<p>“I wish he’d move,” said Kuppins; “he looks so awful quiet, lying there all so lonesome.”</p>
			<p>“Call to him, my girl,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters with his fingers.</p>
			<p>Kuppins essayed a loud “Hilloa,” but it was a dismal failure, on which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters gave a long shrill whistle, which must surely have disturbed the peaceful dreams of the seven sleepers, though it might not have awakened them. The man on the hillock never stirred. The pony, taking advantage of the halt, drew nearer to the heath and began to crop the short grass by the roadside, thus bringing <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yorkins’s trap a little nearer the sleeper.</p>
			<p>“Get down, lass,” said the fingers of the detective; “get down, my lass, and have a look at him, for I can’t leave this ’ere pony.”</p>
			<p>Kuppins looked at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters; and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters looked at Kuppins, as much as to say, “Well, what then?” So Kuppins to whom the laws of the Medes and Persians would have been mild compared to the word of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, surrendered the infant to his care, and descending from the trap, mounted the hillock, and looked at the still reclining figure.</p>
			<p>She did not look long, but returning rapidly to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, took hold of his arm, and said⁠—</p>
			<p>“I don’t think he’s asleep⁠—leastways, his eyes is open; but he don’t look as if he could see anything, somehow. He’s got a little bottle in his hand.”</p>
			<p>Why Kuppins should keep so tight a hold on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters’s arm while she said this it is difficult to tell; but she did clutch his coat-sleeve very tightly, looking back while she spoke with her white face turned towards that whiter face under the evening sky.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters jumped quickly from the trap, tied the elderly pony to a furze-bush, mounted the hillock, and proceeded to inspect the sleeping figure. The pale set face, and the fixed blue eyes, looked up at the crimson light melting into the purple shadows of the evening sky, but never more would earthly sunlight or shadow, or night or morning, or storm or calm, be of any account to that quiet figure lying on the heath. Why the man was there, or how he had come there, was a part of the great mystery under the darkness of which he lay; and that mystery was Death! He had died apparently by poison administered by his own hand; for on the grass by his side there was a little empty bottle labelled “Opium,” on which his fingers lay, not clasping it, but lying as if they had fallen over it. His clothes were soaked through with wet, so that he must in all probability have lain in that place through the storm of the previous night. A silver watch was in the pocket of his waistcoat, which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters found, on looking at it, to have stopped at ten o’clock⁠—ten o’clock of the night before, most likely. His hat had fallen off, and lay at a little distance, and his curling light hair hung in wet ringlets over his high forehead. His face was handsome, the features well chiselled, but the cheeks were sunken and hollow, making the large blue eyes seem larger.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, in examining the pockets of the suicide, found no clue to his identity; a handkerchief, a little silver, a few halfpence, a penknife wrapped in a leaf torn out of a Latin Grammar, were the sole contents.</p>
			<p>The detective reflected for a few moments, with his mouth on one side, and then, mounting the highest hillock near, looked over the surrounding country. He presently descried a group of haymakers at a little distance, whom he signalled with a loud whistle. To them, through Kuppins as interpreter, he gave his directions; and two of the tallest and strongest of the men took the body by the head and feet and carried it between them, with Kuppins’s shawl spread over the still white face. They were two miles from Slopperton, and those two miles were by no means pleasant to Kuppins, seated in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Vorkins’s trap, which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters drove slowly, so as to keep pace with the two men and their ghastly burden. Kuppins’s shawl, which of course would never be any use as a shawl again, was no good to conceal the sharp outline of the face it covered; for Kuppins had seen those blue eyes, and once to see was always to see them as she thought. The dreary journey came at last to a dreary end at the police-office, where the men deposited their dreadful load, and being paid for their trouble, departed rejoicing. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters was busy enough for the next half-hour giving an account of the finding of the body, and issuing handbills of “Found dead, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr>”</p>
			<p>Kuppins and the “fondling” returned to Little Gulliver Street, and if ever there had been a heroine in that street, that heroine was Kuppins. People came from three streets off to see her, and to hear the story, which she told so often that she came at last to tell it mechanically, and to render it slightly obscure by the vagueness of her punctuation. Anything in the way of supper that Kuppins would accept, and two or three dozen suppers if Kuppins would condescend to partake of them, were at Kuppins’s service; and her reign as heroine-in-chief of this dark romance in real life was only put an end to by the appearance of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, the hero, who came home by-and-by, hot and dusty, to announce to the world of Little Gulliver Street, by means of the alphabet, very grimy after his exertions, that the dead man had been recognized as the principal usher of a great school up at the other end of the town, and that his name was, or had been, Jabez North. His motive for committing suicide he had carried a secret with him into the dark and mysterious region to which he was a voluntary traveller; and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, whose business it was to pry about the confines of this shadowy land, though powerless to penetrate the interior, could only discover some faint rumour of an ambitious love for his master’s daughter as being the cause of the young usher’s untimely end. What secrets this dead man had carried with him into the shadow-land, who shall say? There might be one, perhaps, which even <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peters, with his utmost acuteness, could not discover.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
